- [Mary] Welcome to the Spring Security chapter.
Spring Security is a framework
that developers have used for many years
to protect resources from the bad guys and the stupid guys.
Honestly, it's enormous, the depth and breadth of which
we can't cover in one chapter.
But there are common abstractions
that spring security follows
no matter the type of implementation.
We will demonstrate a simple example
of security APIs with JSON webtokens.
For an in depth explanation of spring security,
I encourage you to watch Spring, Spring Security
in the library which will fill in the gaps.
Let's imagine the reception that we would receive
if we wish to enter the White House.
Do you think that the guard would say, come on in?
I don't think so, it would probably go something like this,
stop, who are you!
Identification please.
Who invited you?
What's the reason for entering?
After checking a list, the guard would either provide
a badge, denoting the area and length of accessibility,
or deny us access altogether.
The guard's job is two-fold,
verify our identity and control our access.
Spring security's job is the same,
but uses fancier words, authentication to verify identity.
So the questions would be mapped to,
who are you, identification please, who invited you,
and authorization to control access
would be what is your reason for entering?
And checks a visitors list,
and permit entry with special badge or deny entry.
Let's start with authentication.
We need to make a guest list in our database.
So in the schema.sql and data.sql I've made some changes,
in schema.sql I've created our guest list table
called security_user, columns in the table
are a generated ID, username, password,
first_name and last_name, now let's see who our guests are
in data.sql, we have a user called administrator
with a username admin and a Jane Doe's username
is csr_jane, Mark Smith is csr_mark,
and Walter Adams is wally.
The password column is populated with a hash
to the string letmein, in a later video
I'll show you how that is generated with the crypto tool.
Now that we have our list of guests,
let's peek into authorization, role based security is a way
to separate users from an application
instead of associating application services
to a user, we associate application services to a role.
So I've created a security role table
in schema.sql, and it has an ID, a role name,
and a description, now let's look at the data.sql.
There I have introduced two types of roles
in the security role table, administrator
and customer service representative.
A customer service representative
for the Explore California Travel Agency
records the feedback from the travelers.
Before the API to rate tours was open,
but we're going to restrict that API
to customer service representatives.
An administrator will be able
to add customer service representative users
to the security user table.
Later we will associate roles to services.
First let's associate roles to the users.
In schema.sql we have a user role table
and in user role table we map the user ID to a role ID
and then we have a foreign key references back
to the security_user table and the security_role table
and in data.sql we see that the administrator user
has the admin role, Jane, Mark,
and Wally have the customer service representative role
and Wally also has the admin role.
Because a user can have many roles,
so therefore let's go over to our JPA entities
that map to these tables, we have a user class entity
that's mapped to the security user table.
We see the ID, username, password, first name,
last name mappings, I added a @JsonIgnore annotation
to the password so that the hash of the password
will not be exposed to the API.
Then we can leverage the @ManyToMany
and JoinTable annotations to map
a list of roles to the user.
Now let's look at Role.Java which is an entity
and it's associated with the security role table
and here we have the role name,
and a description and a generated ID.
Now, finally let's look at the user repository
which is a JPA repository.
I have temporarily exported the repository as an API
to Spring Data REST for demonstration purposes.
I will remove that in a later video.
So let's run the application and see our domain model.
So I've launched a browser and I am referencing
the /users API, and with that we see our list of users
and the roles that are associated with that user.
We've done all this setup, but nothing with Spring Security
it's time we add that dependency to the pom.
So in my pom file, I have commented out here
the Spring Boot Starter Security dependency
let me un-comment that, stop the application.
Make sure you've rebuilt it because
it has to load a new dependency
and let's run the application.
Our application has started,
so let's try to access that users API again.
What happened?
Just by adding that pom, our browser actually
redirected us to a Login with a Username and Password page.
So what's happening here is, just by adding
the Spring Security dependency, Spring Security
makes a couple assumptions.
First of all it assumes that all
of our APIs must be forbidden, and protected,
and second it assumes that the authentication scheme
will be form-based authentication
and each user will have a Servlet session.
In the next video, we will override these defaults
and configure Spring Security for our needs.